Between the mainstream approach
of taking a defensive position towards copyright
and the opposite possibility of dedicating
all your work to public domain,
there are many options.
You can opt for a more or less loose strategy.
There are no secret formulas
and no guarantee that one strategy
is more efficient than the other.
You can always combine both
protective and open positions,
depending on the project and actors at stake.
What is important to understand is that
you can set the rules of your own game.
And this is where open licenses can help.
(Wait.) What are open licenses?
For those of you who don't know,
open licenses are agreements
which allow artists to set permissions
for others to use their creative work.
Creative Commons are a set of open licenses that fill a gap
between copyright's automatic "all rights reserved"
and public domain's "no rights reserved",
granting a certain autonomy for artists
to decide in what terms
they want their work to circulate.
Creative Commons offers free, ready to use options
to license your work and it is up to you
to decide which ones to use.
But, How does that  help my creative career?
As we have seen
recognition, networks, time and artistic freedom
are worthy and interchangeable values
for you to consider.
But if you also want your creative work
to be sustainable and have a positive impact
for you and those who you work with,
always protecting your copyright
is NOT the only way to go.
Here are some strategies to manage the value
of your work with open licenses
Distributing your work with an open license
can help you reach larger audiences within a low budget,
and even achieve possible professional opportunities.
By sharing some of your work for free,
you can attract clients for other services
or products you also develop.
You can generate revenues through other indirect ways,
such as advertising, partnerships or consultancy
People may have access to samples
or beta versions of your work
and help you improve it,
getting a discount for their contribution
in the final product.
And by creating a community around your service
you can make your work grow bigger and trustful
improving your reputation.
As you can see, there are lots of possibilities
you only need to be creative about the strategies you choose.
Creative Commons helps you promote this transparent mindset
of sharing and referencing the people and work you love!
(Now) Think of your own projects today.
Can you hold them in the long run?
Are they generating the value you expected
for everyone, including yourself?
Are they sustainable?
It is up to you to decide
what to do with your own copyright
how you want to manage it
and in what terms you want to share your work.
Strategies, rules, agreements and laws
are defined by and for people.
And the way you set your own terms
has an impact in the world.
So, now that you know a bit more about
how copyright influences your creative life...
what role do you want to play
in the cultural scene?